sentry blog post (#760)
kestra-io/docs: content/blogs/2024-01-08-sentry-plugin.md

---
title: "Integrating Sentry.io observability solutions with your workflows"
description: "Learn how to integrate Sentry.io alerting and observability solutions into your Kestra flows"
date: 2024-01-08T08:00:00
category: Solutions
author:
  name: Kevin Flemming
  image: "mproset"
image:
---

> The goal of observability is to provide answers to one question: is everything working as expected, and if not, why not? Everything from data quality to workflow bottlenecks to user experience to CICD pipelines can and should be observable by logs, metrics and traces (the three pillars). And, as they say, absence of evidence is not evidence of absence, so success must be just as observable as failure.
> 
> Kestra make it easy to create, execute and monitor the progress of workflows and individual tasks in real-time, troubleshoot failure by replaying failed tasks or doing a full-text search of the workflow execution logs. This article will focus on integrating Sentry.io observability solutions with your workflows.
> 
> **What’s in this article?**
> 
> Kestra has two tasks and two blueprints to help you monitor workflow executions (success, failure and everything in between), and I will explain how to use each. Both tasks allow you to send issues - Sentry’s name for the information sent to their API:
> 
> - **Sentry Alert**: A free form task to use any way you want
> - **Sentry Execution**: A task that is triggered depending on Flow execution events, e.g. when a flow execution fails.
> 
> Each one of these tasks is described in detail below, and at the end of the article, you’ll find one production-quality example of each task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of observability is to provide answers to one question: is everything working as expected, and if not, why not? Everything from data quality to workflow bottlenecks to user experience to CICD pipelines can and should be observable by logs, metrics, and traces (the three pillars). And, as they say, absence of evidence is not evidence of absence, so success must be just as observable as failure.

Kestra makes it easy to create, execute, and monitor the progress of workflows and individual tasks in real-time, troubleshoot failure by replaying failed tasks, or doing a full-text search of the workflow execution logs. This article will focus on integrating Sentry.io observability solutions with your workflows.

**What’s in this article?**

Kestra has two tasks and two blueprints to help you monitor workflow executions (success, failure and everything in between), and I will explain how to use each. Both tasks allow you to send issues - Sentry’s name for the information sent to their API:

- **Sentry Alert**: A free-form task to use any way you want
- **Sentry Execution**: A task that is triggered depending on Flow execution events, e.g. when a flow execution fails.

Each one of these tasks is described in detail below, and at the end of the article, you’ll find one production-quality example of each task.
```

## Getting started with Sentry

Sentry has a [zero-dollar plan for devs](https://sentry.io/pricing/) (no credit card required) and that’s the plan I’ll be using in this article.

![sentry plan](/blogs/2024-01-08-sentry-plugin/sentry_dev_plan.png)

When Sentry receives an issue, it appears in the Issues dashboard:

![sentry dashboard](/blogs/2024-01-08-sentry-plugin/sentry_dashboard_issues_good_inset.png)

and, with the default configuration, an email alert is sent to the account used during registration:

![sentry gmail](/blogs/2024-01-08-sentry-plugin/sentry_gmail_issues_good.png)

### Sentry Registration

> Registration is quick and easy - you don’t have to choose a plan at this time, Sentry automatically gives everyone a 14-day trial of the Business Plan. During registration, you will be asked to **create an initial project** and an SDK for your preferred tech. A particular SDK is not needed to use Kestra, but you do need one to move forward with Sentry. 
> 
> ![sentry registration](/blogs/2024-01-08-sentry-plugin/sentry_00_choose_sdk_dotnet.png)
> 
> Choose one of the middleware technologies as these make it easy to find your **Sentry Client Keys**, aka Data Source Name or **DSN**. Your Kestra flows will need the DSN in order to POST issues to Sentry, 
> 
> Each project has its own DSN, which can be found by clicking on **Settings**, then **Project Settings**, then the **Client Keys** (DSN) link toward the bottom of the menu:
> 
> ![sentry menu](/blogs/2024-01-08-sentry-plugin/sentry_project_menu_client_keys.png)
> 
> That will take you to this screen where you can copy the DSN.
> 
> **N.B. A DSN is all anyone needs to send traffic to your account and you are responsible for the cost of the traffic, so guard this as carefully as you would any API Key or password.**
> 
> **For more on working with secrets in Kestra, see our [Managing Secrets](https://kestra.io/docs/developer-guide/secrets) guide.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Registration is quick and easy - you don’t have to choose a plan at this time, Sentry automatically gives everyone a 14-day trial of the Business Plan. During registration, you will be asked to **create an initial project** and an SDK for your preferred tech. A particular SDK is not needed to use Kestra, but you do need one to move forward with Sentry. 

![sentry registration](/blogs/2024-01-08-sentry-plugin/sentry_00_choose_sdk_dotnet.png)

Choose one of the middleware technologies as these make it easy to find your **Sentry Client Keys**, aka Data Source Name or **DSN**. Your Kestra flows will need the DSN in order to POST issues to Sentry, 

Each project has its own DSN, which can be found by clicking on **Settings**, then **Project Settings**, then the **Client Keys** (DSN) link toward the bottom of the menu:

![sentry menu](/blogs/2024-01-08-sentry-plugin/sentry_project_menu_client_keys.png)

That will take you to this screen, where you can copy the DSN.

**N.B. A DSN is all anyone needs to send traffic to your account, and you are responsible for the cost of the traffic, so guard this as carefully as you would any API Key or password.**

**For more on working with secrets in Kestra, see our [Managing Secrets](https://kestra.io/docs/developer-guide/secrets) guide.**
```

That’s it. You're all set with Sentry.

## Kestra Workflow Monitoring

Kestra provides two plugins for sending issues to Sentry. Let’s have a look at each, starting with the use-anytime Sentry Alert:**

### SentryAlert Task

`type: io.kestra.plugin.notifications.sentry.SentryAlert`

This is an incredibly useful plugin. You can use it to send an Issue to Sentry for any reason, not just for workflow failure - just keep in mind that you pay based on the volume of issues you send to Sentry.

**The payload parameter is JSON and is not required - Kestra will provide one if you don’t. Here is the default payload Kestra will use:**

### **Default Payload**

```json
{
  "exception": {
    "values": [
      {
        "type": "Kestra Alert"
      }
    ]
  },
  "event_id": "fdc3445611d84a6d9ffffd6f14c44a65",
  "level": "info",
  "extra": {
    "Execution ID": "alert_on_failure"
  },
  "platform": "java",
  "timestamp": "2023-12-20T08:56:55.658844873Z"
}

```

### Payload JSON

If you do want to use the payload property, then making use of it provides a number of benefits in Sentry. You can send as much or as little as you need.**

**Minimal payload example:**

> ```json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

payload: |
      {
          "message": "Kestra Monthly Data Purge FAIL",
          "level": "error"
      }

```

This example uses the full set of payload properties:

```yaml
tasks:
  - id: just_send_an_alert
    type: io.kestra.plugin.notifications.sentry.SentryAlert
    dsn: "{{ secret('SENTRY_DSN') }}"
    payload: |
      {
        "message": "Kestra Task",
        "culprit": "my.module.function_name",
        "timestamp": "{{ execution.startDate }}",
        "platform": "java",
        "level": "info",
        "transaction": "/execution/id/{{ execution.id }}",
        "server_name": "localhost:8080",
        "extra": {
          "Title": "Just a demo of sending an alert for any reason.",
          "Namespace": "{{ flow.namespace }}",
          "Flow ID": "{{ flow.id }}",
          "Execution ID": "{{ execution.id }}",
          "Link": "http://localhost:8080/ui/executions/{{flow.namespace}}/{{flow.id}}/{{execution.id}}"
        }      
      }
```

### Payload JSON Properties

The **message** JSON property will become the label or title of the issue.

`"message": "Kestra Task"`

> This value is used by Sentry to group like issues:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sentry uses this value to group similar issues:
```

![sentry issues](/blogs/2024-01-08-sentry-plugin/sentry_alert_task.png)

> The culprit JSON property is used to define the module or code section related to this issue:
> 
> It appears under the label in the Sentry dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `culprit` JSON property is used to define the module or code section related to this issue:

It appears under the label in the Sentry dashboard.
```

`"culprit": "my.module.function_name"`

The **platform** JSON property should always be java (lower case), because Kestra is written in Java:

`"platform": "java"`

The **level** JSON property is familiar to all. The possible values are Info, Warning, Error:**

`"level": "info"`

The reminder of the payload should be sent as in the above example.

### Extra

> Sentry provides the **extra** property where you can add values as needed.  Extra can be whatever you want, and will appear in the issue details page in the **Additional Data** section.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sentry provides the **extra** property where you can add values as needed. That property will appear on the issue details page in the **Additional Data** section.

```

```json
{
  "Title": "Just a demo of sending an alert for any reason.",
  "Namespace": "{{ flow.namespace }}",
  "Flow ID": "{{ flow.id }}",
  "Execution ID": "{{ execution.id }}",
  "Link": "http://localhost:8080/ui/executions/{{flow.namespace}}/{{flow.id}}/{{execution.id}}"
}     
```

The **Link** key-value pair of the extras property in the example above is particularly useful. It will appear on the issue detail page and is conveniently clickable:

![sentry arrows](/blogs/2024-01-08-sentry-plugin/sentry_payload_extras_arrow.png)

In this example, the link URL has been composed so that it will take you right to the Kestra page for this execution, where you can view any of the relevant information:

![sentry kestra](/blogs/2024-01-08-sentry-plugin/sentry_link_to_kestra.png)

If your use case for Sentry is to actually capture failures, then this link can be composed like this, so that clicking it will take you straight to the logs tab of the executions details:

`Link`: http://localhost:8080/ui/executions/{{flow.namespace}}/{{flow.id}}/{{execution.id}}/logs

Will produce:

http://localhost:8090/ui/executions/sentry_article/sentry_info_task/1TFBhMb71oc30cvfActPxp/logs

> And finally, when you execute the flow, click on the Gantt line item and Kestra will show you the JSON that was sent to Sentry:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, after you executed the flow, navigate to the logs from the Logs or Gantt tabs, and Kestra will show you the JSON that was sent to Sentry:**
```

description: Based on https://demo.kestra.io/ui/blueprints/community/202

tasks:
  - id: clean_up_storage
    type: io.kestra.core.tasks.storages.Purge
    endDate: "{{ trigger.date | dateAdd(-1, 'MONTHS') }}"
    purgeExecution: true
    purgeLog: true
    purgeMetric: true
    purgeStorage: true
    states:
      - SUCCESS

  - id: send_sentry_alert_on_success
    type: io.kestra.plugin.notifications.sentry.SentryAlert
    dsn: "{{ secret('SENTRY_DSN') }}"
    payload: |
      {
          "message": "Kestra Monthly Data Purge Success",
          "level": "info"
      }

errors:
  - id: send_sentry_alert_on_failure
    type: io.kestra.plugin.notifications.sentry.SentryAlert
    dsn: "{{ secret('SENTRY_DSN') }}"
    payload: |
      {
          "message": "Kestra Monthly Data Purge FAIL",
          "level": "error"
      }

triggers:
  - id: monthly
    type: io.kestra.core.models.triggers.types.Schedule
    cron: "0 9 1 * *" # every month at 9am on the 1st day of the month
```

### SentryExecution Task
`type: io.kestra.plugin.notifications.sentry.SentryExecution`

This task demonstrates a really cool feature of Kestra: triggers that trigger other triggers. Let me explain.

> If you have just one flow with some non-zero likelihood of failure - you add a SentryAlert like the examples above. But what do you do when you have 10 or 20 flows? You definitely do not want to have to maintain 20 individual SentryAlert tasks. **That’s when you use the SentryExecution task because it can triggered by any other flow.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have just one flow with some non-zero likelihood of failure - you add a `SentryAlert` like the examples above. But what do you do when you have 10 or 20 flows? You definitely do not want to have to maintain 20 individual `SentryAlert` tasks. **That’s when you use the `SentryExecution` task because any other flow can trigger it.**
```

```yaml
id: foo
namespace: payroll

id: bar
namespace: payroll

id: baz
namespace: payroll
```

Now we create a fourth flow using the SentryExecution task that will be triggered when any flow with the **payroll** namespace fails. This flow has two parts, the task and the trigger.

The task is straightforward. All you need to provide is the **DSN** and the **Level**: 

```yaml
tasks:
- id: send_alert
  type: io.kestra.plugin.notifications.sentry.SentryExecution
  executionId: "{{ trigger.executionId }}"
  transaction: "/execution/id/{{ trigger.executionId }}"
  dsn: "{{ secret('SENTRY_DSN') }}"
  level: ERROR
```

The trigger is only slightly more involved: it needs two pieces of information: the condition that will trigger this flow, and the namespace that Kestra will use to link all four flows together. 

```yaml
triggers:
  - id: failed_prod_workflows
    type: io.kestra.core.models.triggers.types.Flow
    conditions:
      - type: io.kestra.core.models.conditions.types.ExecutionStatusCondition
        in:
          - FAILED
          - WARNING
      - type: io.kestra.core.models.conditions.types.ExecutionNamespaceCondition
        namespace: payroll
        prefix: false
```

> In the YAML above, the `ExecutionStatusCondition` says that any time the execution status is either `FAILED` or `WARNING`, 
> and the `ExecutionNamespaceCondition` says that if the flow namespace matches payroll exactly, then the `send_alert` task will be executed.  
> 
> In pseudo code, the entire flow might read like this:
> 
> Execute send_alert task
>   When the flow execution status is equal to FAILED or WARNING
>   And the flow namespace equals payroll exactly.
> 
> There’s also a handy variation, using prefix: true. In pseudo code, it would read like this:
>   Execute send_alert task
>   When the flow execution status is equal to FAILED or WARNING
>   And the flow namespace startsWith payroll in lower case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the YAML above, the `ExecutionStatusCondition` says that any time the execution status is either `FAILED` or `WARNING`, and the `ExecutionNamespaceCondition` says that if the flow namespace matches payroll exactly, then the `send_alert` task will be executed.  

In pseudo-code, the entire flow might read like this:

Execute `send_alert` task
  When the flow execution status is equal to FAILED or WARNING
  And the flow namespace equals `payroll`.

There’s also a handy variation using the `prefix: true`. In pseudo-code, it would read like this:

  Execute send_alert task
  When the flow execution status is equal to FAILED or WARNING
  And the flow namespace starts with `payroll` in lowercase
```

        in:
          - FAILED
          - WARNING
      - type: io.kestra.core.models.conditions.types.ExecutionNamespaceCondition
        namespace: trig
        prefix: false        
 # namespace must match exactly
```
### The JSON sent to Sentry

```json
{
  "exception": {
    "values": [
      {
        "type": "task_to_trigger_another_trigger ➛ FAILED",
        "value": "Failed on task `bash_will_fail` after 00:00:01.706",
        "module": "trig",
        "stacktrace": {}
      }
    ]
  },
  "extra": {
    "Namespace": "trig",
    "Flow ID": "task_to_trigger_another_trigger",
    "Execution ID": "7SHVIjFA6jTEJdRrs9xPWJ",
    "Execution Status": "FAILED",
    "Link": 
"http://localhost:8090/ui/executions/trig/task_to_trigger_another_trigger/
7SHVIjFA6jTEJdRrs9xPWJ"
  },
  "event_id": "d67d9f9959f847a28a2baaf30b8e5769",
  "timestamp": "2023-12-21T11:55:29.295194301Z",
  "platform": "java",
  "level": "error",
  "transaction": "/execution/id/7SHVIjFA6jTEJdRrs9xPWJ"
}
```

## Flow Execution States

Per the [online documentation](https://kestra.io/docs/concepts/executions), there are nine possible states for any execution:

> However, not all are available or make sense to use with the `ExecutionStatusCondition task`.  His task could be executed by the PAUSED state when someone manually pauses the task execution. The most common for states are FAILED and WARNING.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, not all are available or make sense with the `ExecutionStatusCondition` task. This task could be executed by the PAUSED state when someone manually pauses the task execution. The most common for states are FAILED and WARNING.
```

- `RUNNING`: The Execution or Task Run is currently running.
- `PAUSED`: The Execution or Task Run has been paused. This status is used for two reasons:
- - Manual validation
- - Delay (for a specified duration before continuing the execution)
- `SUCCESS`: The Execution or Task Run has been completed successfully.
- `WARNING`: The Execution or Task Run exhibited unintended behavior, but the execution continued and was flagged with a warning.
- `FAILED`: The Execution or Task Run exhibited unintended behavior that caused the execution to fail.
- `KILLING`: A command was issued that asked for the Execution or Task Run to be killed. The system is in the process of killing the associated tasks.
- `KILLED`: An Execution or Task Run was killed (upon request), and no more tasks will run for it.
- `RESTARTED`: This status is transitive. It is the same as CREATED, but for a flow that has already been executed, failed, and has been restarted.

## Putting it all together

Finally, let’s look at a production quality example using **SentryAlert** and **SentryExecution**.

> ### SentryAlert Production Example
> The flow below is a production quality example using the SentryAlert task to send an issue when the get_files task throws an error. This example uses secrets, variable and taskDefaults for the db connection values and the Sentry DSN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `SentryAlert` Production Example

The flow below is a production-quality example using the `SentryAlert` task to send an issue when the `get_files` task throws an error. This example uses `secrets`, `variables`, and `taskDefaults` for the DB connection values and the Sentry DSN.
```

        "platform": "java",
        "level": "error",
        "transaction": "/execution/id/{{ execution.id }}",
        "server_name": "localhost:8080",
        "extra": {
          "Title": "This is the Title",
          "Namespace": "{{ flow.namespace }}",
          "Flow ID": "{{ flow.id }}",
          "Execution ID": "{{ execution.id }}",
          "Link": "http://localhost:8080/ui/executions/{{flow.namespace}}/{{flow.id}}/{{execution.id}}"
        }      
      }

tasks:
- id: get_files
  type: io.kestra.plugin.jdbc.postgresql.Query
  sql: select not_a_real_column from not_a_real_table;
  fetch: true

- id: use_files
  type: io.kestra.core.tasks.log.Log
  message: Number of rows returned is "{{get_files.outputs.size}}"

triggers:
  - id: schedule
    type: io.kestra.core.models.triggers.types.Schedule
    cron: "*/05 * * * *"
    # every 5 minutes

variables:
    db_host: "host.docker.internal"
    db_name: "summ_dev"

taskDefaults:
  - type: io.kestra.plugin.jdbc.postgresql.Query
    values:
      username: "{{ secret('PG_USERNAM') }}"
      password: "{{ secret('PG_PWD') }}"
      url: jdbc:postgresql://{{vars.db_host}}:5432/{{ vars.db_name}}
     

> disabled: false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

delete disabled

also the order is a bit not typical, maybe try the typical order of properties?

- id
- namespace
- description
- variables
- tasks
- triggers
- taskDefaults
- errors

```

> ### SentryExecution Production Example
> The flow below is a production quality example using the SentryExecution task. It uses the same postgresql query task as in the example above to generate the failure condition.
> 
> First, the flow that will fail:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `SentryExecution` Production Example

The flow below is a production quality example using the `SentryExecution` task. It uses the same Postgres query task as in the example above to generate the failure condition.

First, the flow that will fail:
```

    db_name: "summ_dev"

taskDefaults:
  - type: io.kestra.plugin.jdbc.postgresql.Query
    values:
      username: "{{ secret('PG_USERNAME') }}"
      password: "{{ secret('PG_PWD') }}"
      url: jdbc:postgresql://{{vars.db_host}}:5432/{{ vars.db_name}}
```
This is the SentryExecution flow that waits for the above flow to fail:

```yaml
id: sentry_execution_trigger_example
namespace: sentry_article
description: Waits for another flow with the namespace specified below to fail or warn, and then sends a Sentry issue.

tasks:
- id: send_alert
  type: io.kestra.plugin.notifications.sentry.SentryExecution
  executionId: "{{ trigger.executionId }}"
  transaction: "/execution/id/{{ trigger.executionId }}"
  dsn: "{{ secret('SENTRY_DSN') }}"
  level: ERROR

triggers:
  - id: failed_prod_workflows
    type: io.kestra.core.models.triggers.types.Flow
    conditions:
      - type: io.kestra.core.models.conditions.types.ExecutionStatusCondition
        in:
          - FAILED
          - WARNING
      - type: io.kestra.core.models.conditions.types.ExecutionNamespaceCondition
        namespace: sentry_trig # needs to match the namespace of the flow above
        prefix: false
```

> ## Summing up Kestra and Sentry.io Integration
> 
> After you’ve tried the examples above in your own environment, you’ll see how easy it is for business or technical users to add Sentry.io monitoring and alerting. From dev to production, whatever the size of your shop, Kestra and Sentry makes it easy not just to create issues from workflows, successes or failures, but tracking them throughout any of your issues’ lifecycle stages. Together, Kestra and Sentry are fully capable of delivering enterprise class workflow automation and end-to-end observability. 
> 
> Kestra provides dashboards and metrics directly in the User Interface, as well as a number of other monitoring solutions that you can read about here: [Alerting & Monitoring](https://kestra.io/docs/administrator-guide/monitoring) or in our [Notification Blueprints](https://kestra.io/blueprints?page=1&size=24&tags=17).
> 
> If you have any questions, reach out via [Slack](https://kestra.io/slack) or open [a GitHub issue](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra).
> 
> If you like the project, give us a [⭐️ GitHub star](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra) and join [🫶 the community](https://kestra.io/slack)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Summing up Kestra and Sentry Integration

After you’ve tried the examples above in your own environment, you’ll see how easy it is for business or technical users to add Sentry.io monitoring and alerting. From dev to production, whatever the size of your shop, Kestra and Sentry help create issues from workflows, successes or failures, but tracking them throughout any of your issues’ lifecycle stages. Together, Kestra and Sentry are fully capable of delivering enterprise-grade workflow automation and end-to-end observability. 

Kestra provides dashboards and metrics directly in the UI, as well as a number of other monitoring solutions that you can read about here: [Alerting & Monitoring](https://kestra.io/docs/administrator-guide/monitoring) or in our [Notification Blueprints](https://kestra.io/blueprints?page=1&size=24&tags=17).

If you have any questions, reach out via [Slack](https://kestra.io/slack) or open [a GitHub issue](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra).

If you like the project, give us a [⭐️ GitHub star](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra) and join [🫶 the community](https://kestra.io/slack)
```

---

> title: "Integrating Sentry.io observability solutions with your workflows"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Integrating Sentry observability with your workflows"
```
